---
id: 344b75a4-595b-4ba5-8851-ddfb6d4acf7c
url: >-
  https://www.notion.so/Cloud-Tenant-resources-tagging-344b75a4595b4ba58851ddfb6d4acf7c
title: Cloud Tenant resources tagging
category: ðŸ”– Security & Compliance
layout: CFMMBlock
properties:
  pillar: ðŸ”– Security & Compliance
  enables: []
  redaction-state: mvp1
  journey-stage: â­ï¸â­ï¸â­ï¸
  depends-on: []
  scope: ðŸ›¬ Landing Zone
  summary: >-
    Cloud tenant resources are tagged and managed according to the companies
    needs
  tool-implementations:
    - acf452d3-8425-41e2-ba8b-ee212a6fb189
  name: Cloud Tenant resources tagging
---

## **What are Cloud Resource Tags?**

A tag is a label assigned to a cloud resource to apply custom metadata. Anything is taggable - from the cloud tenant on the top level to resource groups to single resources like virtual machines and databases.

Tags come as key value pairs:

The key describes the kind of tag that is then further specified by its value. For example, the key could be `environment` and the values could be `development` , `staging` , or `production` .

There are two different kinds of tags: The ones that are automatically generated by the cloud service provider - e.g. instance or subnet IDs - and user-defined tags.

In this building block, we'll focus on the user-defined tags since they enable us to freely enrich our cloud resources with the information we consider relevant.

<!--notion-markdown-cms:raw-->
<CallToAction>
  <CtaHeader>Make your Cloud Security a Priority</CtaHeader>
  <CtaText>One central advantage of using the cloud is rapid scalability. <b>Tag early - tag often </b> to keep track of what is going on in your cloud infrastructure while it is constantly growing and changing.</CtaText>
  <CtaButton class="btn-primary" url="https://www.meshcloud.io/2020/10/27/your-path-to-a-winning-multi-cloud-tagging-strategy/">Learn more</CtaButton>
</CallToAction>

## **Why a tagging strategy is an absolute must-have**

One central advantage of using the cloud is rapid scalability. And with this comes the necessity to keep track of what is going on in your cloud infrastructure while it is constantly growing and changing. That's where tags come in: You will need a consistent set of tags to apply globally across all of your resources following a consistent set of rules. Tagging is the cornerstone to effective cloud governance: Cost allocation, reporting, chargeback and showback, cost optimization, compliance, and security - all these aspects can only be managed with proper tagging in place.

Everything can be put into this mnemonic: **Tag early, tag often.**

## C **hallenges of Tagging in Multi-Cloud Architectures**

Most companies use multiple cloud platforms and - in one way or another - struggle with the governance of their cloud architecture. Tags are here to help! BUT there are a few caveats that you need to be aware of to actually make things better.

Each cloud platform has its own tagging constraints - Google doesn't even call them tags but labels.

These questions will come up:

- How many tags per resource are possible?

- How many characters per tag and which characters are not allowed?
There are limitations regarding number of tags and length of tag keys and values. If different part of the organisation come up with a list of tags each without synching closely they can come up with different tags for the same thing but also they can exceed the max limit on a tenant or resources

- Is there a difference in requirements for keys and values?

- What exceptions are there?

To help you with that we've created our [Cheat Sheet for Tags and Labels on Cloud Platforms](https://www.meshcloud.io/2020/09/29/tags-and-labels-on-cloud-platforms-cheat-sheet-2020/) . There you can look up the differences in Azure, AWS, and GCP tagging and labeling.

Consistency in the usage and naming of tags becomes even more important when working in a multi-cloud architecture. It is extremely critical if you want to do queries based on tags - inconsistencies and typos can ruin the whole point of what you were trying to achieve.



> **âœ…**" Get instant status reports on your cloud tags. The open source tool Collie-CLI will provide you a quick overview on your tags across all cloud providers. [https://github.com/meshcloud/collie-cli](https://github.com/meshcloud/collie-cli)

